# Reading Notes Class 6

## An Introduction to Node.js

  1. Node.js is a run-time environment for developing server-side and networking applications. There are multpile different "definitions" of what it is. Their website states it is a runtime built on Chrome’s V8 JavaScript engine. To break this down, this V8 engine is an open source JavaScript engine that runs Chrome and other Chrome based browsers. It complies JavaScript code to code that your local machine can execute. Node.js has excellent support for modern JavaScript (ES6), and you generally don't have to worry about compatibility issues. 'npm' is the node package manager, and has access to thousands of different packages of javascript code available online. Node.js can be used to packaging javascript files and dependencies into static assets, running tests, and running linter on your code automaticlaly. You also need to understand node.js because many larger frameworks (angular and react for example) are only available via npm and node, and use node's environemnt to run at their best. 
  2. Node.js works differently than other server side applications. One way is that other servers will have one thread open per request, which can make the website slow or even crash. Node only has one thread, and if it's busy will send a callback request and the request will be processed as soon as it's clear to do so. There are many developers that don't like node for this reason, as the asynchronous task completion and callbacks can be a headache for some. The article then goes over the process for creating a server and getting it live, which we went over in class on Friday. It is using the same terminology, such as request response cycle. Node is very effective for things like chat sites, data streaming sites, and building API's. Another benefit of using node is that you don't have to switch "modes" to another language, you can complete everything in JavaScript and the front and back end will be able to easily talk to each other. Node can be used for more than just back-end, it can also create web deevelopment/terminal apps, cross-platform desktop apps, and robots.
