# Ethics in Tech
## Project Dragonfly
> It baffles me that any company that boasts any sort of ethics would be considering creating software that censors citizens of an authoriarian government that has been proven to violate many human rights, much less begin to develop said software. The company in question here is Google, and I'm surprised to see that this article was only written a couple of years ago. I agree with the points made in this article, and am impressed that the employees of Google would be vocal in their objections toward working on a project like this, or even for a company that is willing to produce a project like this. While I understand wanting the company to continue to succeed, and that they have a difficult time turning a deal like this down, as there would be nearly 2 billion new users of a Google product, it seems like a horrible decision. And they knew it was a horrible decision, it's why it was never known beyond 500 or so employees that it was in the pre-production phase. I'm interested to research and see if Google ended up making the software, or if they decided to drop the project altogether.

## Big Data is Our Generation's Civil Rights Issue
> This article really gave me something to think about. It's interesting to think that if they collect enough different pieces of data from every single person, that they could ascertain a person's gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and the list keeps going on. I never considered data as a civil rights issue, but I can see how it would potentially be one. It makes me think about sites like facebook, for example, and how they are able to find out what I've searched for on Google (I assume, otherwise how would they know to show ads for water bottles when I just looked up hydroflask???). What other ads are they targeting to me because my data and search history indicates I'm a straight female that they have assumed other likes/dislikes? I get so many coding suggestions popping up on my google front page, I'm sure they know as well. I can see how this could easily become a civil rights issue. They compare it to the redzoning that used to be done by mortage brokers to modify interest rates, and then American Express deciding to lower someones credit limits because of what other people have done that shop at that same store. It could so easliy be abused, and we really should be working to protect the information of the users of our products.
