# Engineering Topics:

## Solving Problems:

  1. How to Solve Programming Problems: In coding interviews, the biggest problem people seem to make is to jump into the coding before having a solid plan laid out. There are 6 steps to follow to solve any algorith-type problem, with 70% of time recommended to be spent on 1-3.
  2. Step one: Read the problem completely twice. At least twice, possibly 3-4 times to make sure you have a full and accurate understanding of the problem. If you don't understand the problem, you can't solve it.
  3. Step two: Solve the problem manually: Write out each step you need to complete to solve the problem. You're recognizing what your brain is doing to solve the problem, and you need to remember what all they are without glossing over.
  4. Step three: optimize the manual solution: Trying to optimize the solution in your head/on paper before trying to optimize it in code. Is there an easier way to solve the problem? Are you doing the exact same step over and over, where you could place a loop? Writing code will be easy once you know the problem is solved and simplified as much as possible.
  5. Step four: Write pseudo-code or comments: You can outline the structure of the code, capturing all the different steps to make it much easier to fill in the code itself once you have the shell there in the form of comments.
  6. Step five: Replace comments with real code: It's possible for this to pose issues if you haven't broken down the problem well enough, or if you just don't know the coding language well enough to fill in the blanks. If it's mot broken down enough at this point, take what you have, and go back to step two and break it down even further, then continue through the other steps, otherwise it's important to go back and study the concepts we don't understand fully enough.
  7. Step six: Optimize the real code: Sometimes unneccessary if the code is already optimized, but going through and making sure it's as simple and clean as possible will make potential employers very happy. One thing the author says at this point is to make sure you practice code in this way, the 70%/30% method, to get really good at it and improve your confidence, as it's really easy to get stressed out and doubt your abilities when you get 70% of the way through a coding interview and have yet to write any actual code. He also mentions that if it's a really large project or problem, to cut it in half, cut your available time in half, and spend 50% of the time on each half of the task, which helps to keep you focused.
