# Class 5 reading notes

## 1. HTML & CSS

   - **Chapter 5: Images**
     1. Images can be added to your document similarly to linking another webpage. It starts with an &lt;img&gt; tag, and inside the tag you "src" an image file in your computer. The img tag is an empty element, so you don't need to have a closing tag. The height and width of the image can also be placed within the img tag.
     2. Images can be placed before, inside the beginning, and inside the middle of a paragraph, it just depends on the appearance the developer is looking for in the webpage. In older code, it is also possible to "align" the image to the right or left of the page, and have the text flow around it. Older coding rules also allow to align images vertically either top, middle, or bottom.
     3. Image files can be called with either JPEG or GIF files, and work better if the size is pre-programmed, but make sure in cropping an image that the image used is the important part and has not been enlarged to the point of the image becoming blurry.
        
   - **Chapter 11: Color**
     1. Color is an incredibly important feature of a website, as contrast and background color can be some of the most visually parts of a website. Text color and background color can be changed by color names, RGB values (red, green, blue: the associated numbers show how much are used to make a color), and hex values (six digit codes that start with a pound sign with a combination of letters and numbers after). The hue, saturation, and brightness are also able to be controlled for an image or color. 
     2. HSL stands for hue, saturation, and lightness, which controls the amount of a color that appears. The opacity of an image is how solid the element is, in case the developer wishes to make an image or element partially see through. Contrast makes the difference between colors larger, which makes text easier to read.
   
   - **Chapter 12: Text**
     1. Text properties are divided into those that change the physical characteristics (size, font, etc) of the text, and those that alter the color, spacing, and positioning. Choosing the right physical characteristics can completely change the appearance and readability of a webpage, and must be chosen carefully. They are controlled by several different properties, some of the most common are font-family (chooses the font name), font size (chooses the size of the lettering), font-weight (bolds the text), font-style (italics), text-transform (all the same case, or capitalizes the first letter of each word, as in a title), text-decoration (underline, strikethrough, overline), text-align (justification), vertical-align (vertical justification), text-indent (indents first line of new element), etc. 
     2. Other lesser-used properties are line-height (increases spacing between lines), letter/word-spacing (increases space between letters/words), text-shadow (that can create a drop shadow, a shadow box, or blurring of text), first letter/line (enlarges the first letter or line of text), :link/:visited (changes the color of a link after visiting, :hover/:active/:focus (changes the color when a mouse hovers, is being activated/clicked). There are several other text properties that change the appearance for a variety of reasons, but these are the main properties.
